# MintGate

## Quickstart

If you don't have Rust:

Install Rust <https://rustup.rs/>

Add `wasm32` target to Rust

```sh
rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown
```

## To Explore

- [`mg-nft` contract](mg-nft/)
- [`mg-market` contract](mg-market/)

## Scripts

The `package.json` contains scripts to facilitate running compilation targets and tests.
The following are the most relevant scripts.

- `build:contracts`.
Builds both `mg_nft.wasm` and `mg_market.wasm` contracts for the `wasm32-unknown-unknown` target.
The wasm binaries can be found under `release/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release` folder.
- `unit-test:contracts`.
Runs both `mg-nft` and `mg-market` contract unit tests.
These tests are being executed locally using the host architecture.
In other words, they are not compile down to WebAssembly.
- `app-test:contracts`.
Executes the application tests.
The application tests run both contracts in `testnet`.
It creates user and contract accounts to test the contracts.
The accounts IDs used are cached in the `neardev` folder.
Moreover, the script automatically deploys contracts to the `testnet` contract accounts.
It ensures that both contracts are already built before running the tests.
- `app-test:contracts:clean`.
Removes the `neardev` folder which contains the account IDs created for `app-test:contracts`.
- `dev-deploy:contract`.
*WIP*. Deploys contracts to a dev account.
- `deploy:contract`.
*WIP*. Deploys contracts to an already logged in account.
- `build:lib`.
Builds the contract client library.
- `lint:lib`.
Provides linting checks for the contract client library.

## Terminology

- **User**: any Internet user who may (or may not) have NEAR Account
- **NEAR User**: a User who has NEAR Account
- **Creator (aka Artist)**: a User who has NEAR Account and MintGate account. Creator creates Collectibles. Creator cannot be changed once set for Collectible.
- **Admin**: a NEAR User that operates MintGate NFT contract, or another NEAR Account that takes this role as assigned during build and deployment process of NFT contract.
- **Claimer (aka Holder)**: a NEAR User who mints Tokens for selected Collectible on the NFT contract. Creator and Admin also can act as a Claimer. Claimer becomes an Owner after s_he succesfully minted a Token.
- **Buyer**: a NEAR User who purchases Token from Marketplace. Buyer becomes an Owner after s_he succesfully purchased a Token.
- **Seller**: an Owner who sells Token on the Marketplace from the moment when he approves Marketplace until deal will be settled and he looses ownership over a Token.
- **Owner**: a NEAR User who owns a Token of any Collectible as a result of minting it on NFT contract, buying from Marketplace, or receiving it as a gift from another Owner.
- **Royalty beneficiar**: a NEAR User who receives % from each deal closed on any of the Marketplaces with each Token. There will be exactly 1 Royalty beneficiar. It may be a Creator, but may be not. Royalty beneficiar cannot be changed once set for Collectible.
- **Collectible**: NFT with information about its Creator, Supply and other Metadata, identified uniquely by GateID provided externally from MintGate platform.
- **GateID**: unique identifier of Collectible that originally generated by MintGate and stored in their master database off-chain.
- **Supply**: maximum amount of Tokens that can be minted for given Collectible. Mimimum supply is 1 ("Pure NFT"). When NFT has Supply > 1 it can be named a semi-fungible Token.
- **Current Supply**: number of remining Tokens available for minting for given Collectible. Current Supply <= Supply, and always decresing towards 0. When CurrentSupply=0 then Tokens for this Collectible can be obtained from Marketplace, or as a result of direct transfer from Owner to NEAR User (as a gift or a deal settled off-chain).  
- **Token**: an asset on NFT Contract that is identified by unique ID and that always belongs to one Collectible and has one Owner.
