<!-- AUTOGENERATED doc on 2021-04-30 08:42:50.248984 UTC, do not modify! -->
# Contract

This module implement the MintGate marketplace.

## Methods for MarketContract

### :rocket: `init` (*constructor*)

```typescript
init: {  };
```

Initializes the Market contract.

### :eyeglasses: `get_tokens_for_sale`

```typescript
get_tokens_for_sale(): Promise<TokenForSale[]>;
```

Returns all available tokens for sale.
Use the `nft_on_approve` method to add a token for sale.

### :eyeglasses: `get_tokens_by_owner_id`

```typescript
get_tokens_by_owner_id(args: { owner_id: ValidAccountId }): Promise<TokenForSale[]>;
```

Returns all tokens for sale owned by `owner_id`.

### :eyeglasses: `get_tokens_by_gate_id`

```typescript
get_tokens_by_gate_id(args: { gate_id: ValidGateId }): Promise<TokenForSale[]>;
```

Returns all tokens for sale whose collectible's gate ID is `gate_id`.

### :eyeglasses: `get_tokens_by_creator_id`

```typescript
get_tokens_by_creator_id(args: { creator_id: ValidAccountId }): Promise<TokenForSale[]>;
```

Returns all tokens for sale whose collectible's creator ID is `creator_id`.

### &#x24C3; `buy_token`

```typescript
buy_token(args: { nft_contract_id: ValidAccountId, token_id: TokenId }, gas?: any, amount?: any): Promise<void>;
```

Indicates that `predecessor_account_id` wants to buy the token `nft_contract_id:token_id`.

The caller must attach at least `min_price` NEARs in order to pay for the given token.
Moreover, the owner cannot buy his/her own tokens.

When the token is sold,
royalties are paid by this marketplace according to `nft_contract_id::nft_transfer_payout`.

## Methods for `NonFungibleTokenApprovalsReceiver` interface

### :writing_hand: `nft_on_approve`

```typescript
nft_on_approve(args: { token_id: TokenId, owner_id: ValidAccountId, approval_id: U64, msg: string }, gas?: any): Promise<void>;
```

Callback method to allow this contract to put a `Token` into the marketplace.
The msg must contain the following fields:

### :writing_hand: `nft_on_revoke`

```typescript
nft_on_revoke(args: { token_id: TokenId }, gas?: any): Promise<void>;
```

Callback method to remove this `Token` from the marketplace.

### :writing_hand: `batch_on_approve`

```typescript
batch_on_approve(args: { tokens: [TokenId, MarketApproveMsg][], owner_id: ValidAccountId }, gas?: any): Promise<void>;
```

Callback method to allow this contract to put multiple `Token`s into the marketplace.

---

References

- :rocket: Initialization method. Needs to be called right after deployment.
- :eyeglasses: View only method, *i.e.*, does not modify the contract state.
- :writing_hand: Call method, i.e., does modify the contract state.
- &#x24C3; Payable method, i.e., call needs to have an attached NEAR deposit.

---

*This documentation was generated with* **near-md v0.2.16** <https://github.com/epam/near-syn> *on 2021-04-30 08:42:50.248984 UTC*
